>> Bianca Gandolfo: We
are going to hop into graphs.
So we looked at linked lists,
we looked at trees,
which were all a specialized
type of graph.
So a graph is simply a collection
of vertices connected by edges.
It is a data structure that
is really good at representing
relationships between different nodes.
And not necessarily
a hierarchical relationship, but
any kind of relationship.
And graphs are one of the most
widely used data structures when
we're trying to study real world
things like, I don't know.
Like a map, for example,
all the cities and
the streets would be considered a graph,
the Internet, right?
Different servers connected
would be an example.
Websites connected with
links as the edges.
What else?
We can also represent mazes as points and
edges, like Pac-Man is an example.
We'll do some traversals,
which will be the same as maze traversals
if you wanted to make a maze solver.
What else can we do with graphs?
Hm, so those are kind of obvious ones.
And then there's a bunch of
mathematical applications as well for
calculating different stuff in statistics.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: When
else can we do a graph?
Does anyone else have
an example of a graph?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So we can replicate
natural phenomena and
see if water can flow through cracks,
depending on the density of the rock and
things like that.
So we can do all kinds of really
cool modeling with graphs.
Trying to think of what else.
Like data compression is another use of
a graph.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
that's really cool stuff.
But we have to start with
one thing at a time, right?
We have our vertices, or nodes,
we can call them nodes, but
we technically call them vertices,
connected by edges.
Cool.
We have relationships.
So we have some new vocabulary words.
So again, edges, they represent
a connection between two vertices.
They can be directed or undirected.
A directed graph means that
you can only travel from
one node in a certain direction.
So this is a directed graph,
where you could only travel
from this node to this node.
We can't go backwards.
And so use cases for
a directed graph would be a street.
So any sort of navigation.
Google Maps, for example, would be
a really, really complex directed graph,
because there's one way streets and
things like that.
And you can only get to
places in a certain order.
So that would be a directed graph.
An undirected graph would be,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I don't know,
I'm thinking.
One that doesn't order.
Direction is not a piece data
that's important to you.
So the vertices,
those are gonna be your nodes.
They're gonna contain data.
A path is just a sequence
of connected vertices.
So back to the example of
the website with the links.
You can see if there's a way to get
from one website to another website by
following embedded links.
Web crawlers do that,
your search engine does that kinda stuff.
Simple path, no repeated vertices.
A cycle is a path that's cyclical.
So this would be a cycle.
That's one of the main things that sets
a tree apart from a graph by just a very,
the definition of it is that a tree
is a graph that has no cycles.
So you'll never see a cycle in a tree.
Suddenly, if your tree has a cycle,
you're doing it wrong and
you suddenly made a graph, which is fine.
Just maybe you're using the wrong data
structure.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And then,
an acyclic graph has no cycles.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool,
mm-hm?
>> Speaker 2: So for the undirected graph,
do you need a reference going
from one node to the other and
another reference coming from the other
node to this one, so you need to have two?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm, you need to
have a way to represent, either going
one way or the other way, yeah.
Or and, it's an and, not an or.
Cool.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so, Facebook,
Twitter, any sort of social network,
that would be an undirected graph,
actually, where you can go from one
friend to the other friend, back, and
in any which order's an undirected graph.
So social networks, a very,
very famous example of graph is Facebook.
And we hear about, Facebook graph search.
And it's just really advanced algorithms
around processing large graphs of data,
around relationships between people,
companies,
interests, all kinds
if interesting things.
It may be a little bit creepy, right?
All the data they're able
to extract from that.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay, so
here's some common operations
that we're gonna think about
when we're thinking
about any kind of graph.
We need to be able to add an edge,
delete an edge, detect if there's
an edge between two nodes.
Find its neighbors and see if
there's a path between two vertices.
Cool.
Creating a vertex as well.
So you can have a graph that's unconnected
that's just one vertex in space.
And it can live there forever and
then you can just connect them anytime.
That make sense?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: All right,
common operations.
So the next thing I want to talk about
is how do we represent our graph.
So when we've been talking about trees and
linked lists,
we've only really talked about one
way to represent them more or less.
And it's kind of these nested
data structures with pointers.
But actually, when we represent graphs,
we do it in a more abstract way because
we wanna optimize for certain
algorithms or operations on a graph.
So I'll talk about two major ones,
and we're only gonna stick to one.
But we'll do some exercises
thinking about how can we represent
this graph not as a super
nested object necessarily.
Like were doing with trees, that might be
where your next step in your mind was.
Like, we have a linked list, its objects,
they have pointers to each other.
We have a tree.
It's an object within
an object within an object,
continue with more pointers right?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Graphs,
you could represent it like that, but
we're gonna talk about how to optimize
that representation for
specific use cases.
That's what we're gonna do right now.
Any questions?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I really love graphs.
So here's an adjacency matrix.
So you can imagine this is like a 2D
array, an array within an array
that is gonna represent just a binary
relationship between two nodes.
And so this is what graphs
are really good at is representing
any kinda binary relationship.
And so if you can imagine what
that might mean, it's huge, right?
So how we do that with this
adjacency matrix is simply
put a 1, true, where there is an edge.
So between 2 and 1, we have an edge.
We represent it here as well.
So we can just populate this based on,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Where we have edges.
So if we wanna add an edge,
we simply change the 0 to a 1.
To delete an edge, change the 1 to a 0.
Cool, and this is undirected, so
it does not have any opinions about which
direction it can go.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
what would have to change if we still
wanted to use this adjacency matrix but
we wanted to represent a directed graph?
>> Speaker 2: It'll be a zero for
the one that's not direct,
it has the direction to.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, yeah,
so instead of having a two way street
here, we'd only put a one where it could
actually travel.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Or
in this case, a negative one.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool,
so there's another kinda graph
that I didn't tell you about yet.
It's called a weighted graph.
And this gives us a little
more information about,
we can call it the cost between two nodes.
And this cost in our map example
could be the time to travel between
two cities, right?
Which can change if there's traffic or
whatever.
It could be the size of pipes if
we're measuring water moving through,
I don't know, the plumbing
system in the city or bandwidth.
Or the distance between servers,
so that we can calculate
how long it takes to travel
across the Internet, somewhere.
What else could this represent, weighted?
>> Speaker 2: Use this for
kinetic systems biology,
you have different molecules, reactions.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I
don't know anything about biology.
But if there's a cost to get from one
place to another, like maybe energy,
calories.
>> Speaker 2: The reaction time.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so
those things could be represented
in a graph with a cost.
Or a weight, we call it a weighted graph.
And this is a directed weighted graph
means that it has both direction and
weight.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
you can see we represent
it very similarly.
We usually use just the weight
instead of the one.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool?
Okay, and so this is very different than
how we were representing our data before.
It was kind of we have this idea,
we draw it and then it's kind of abstract.
And now to me, it feels like
it's another layer abstraction.
Do we feel that way?
Yeah, I'm like dancing,
dancing to my graph.
Cool.